# Furniture Replacement In Indoor Scenes
# Abstract:
One important aspect of interior decoration involves the proper adjustment of furniture items according to the available space and visual perceptions of people as per their satisfaction. Instead of physically moving furniture, we can use virtual ways of replacing furniture, thus saving us time and effort. Deep learning techniques using Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) are useful in providing a virtual way of replacing existing furniture with new furniture in indoor scenes. However, most algorithms are focused on accurately reproducing missing regions, and do not sufficiently take into account the physical requirements of fitting the furniture naturally within an area of specified dimensions. This requires not only image reconstruction but also geometric matching to identify the correct position of the new furniture in the indoor space. This project proposes a Generative Adversarial Networks (GAN) based model to overcome the twin challenges of missing image area completion using existing image background (floor, wall and ceiling), and accurate positioning of new furniture image. This can be done using two GAN-based neural networks where one network learns the elements of the background and recreates the indoor scene without a furniture object and another GAN network assesses the positioning of a new furniture object within the indoor scene for accuracy in order to generate realistic furniture replacement within an indoor scene. This project employs existing deep learning architectures and models such as Mask R CNN, DeepLabv3+, EdgeConnect and ST-GAN to perform the virtual replacement of furniture. The project employs semantic segmentation techniques, mask creation, image inpainting using GAN, and virtual image replacement using GAN. The research identifies the improvements obtained by using a novel GAN architecture ST-GAN for virtual image replacement. ST-GAN is a combination of spatial transformer networks (STN) and GANs. STNs provide the geometric corrections to the image and GANs assesses the accuracy of the positioning of the image. By iterative use of STNs and GAN, a realistic composite image is created, that will have a correct positioning of a new furniture object in place of another furniture object. Thus, instead of physically replacing furniture, you can take a photo of an indoor scene with a furniture and replace the furniture with another furniture virtually. This will save the time and effort of physically moving objects. This will allow furnishing companies to provide a useful virtual shopping experience without manual labour and enable interior decorators to gain a better perception of the aesthetic effects of shifting furniture objects. The system is useful within a 2D space with front view images of furniture.
